# UCU Election Data and Explorer

UCU has annual elections for around half of the National Executive Committe (NEC) (and thus half of each sectoral subcommittees, 
the Further Education Committee (FEC) and the Higher Education Committee (HEC)) as well as the (alternating sector) Vice-President and, 
every 5 years, the General Secretary.

Turnout is a problem! I've been worried about it for a [while](https://bparsia.wordpress.com/2021/02/05/some-thoughts-about-democracy/). 
Understanding individual elections and trends is hard because the data is not easily analysable as it's a mishmash of webpages and PDFs 
(and the occasional Word doc). This repo contains tools for extracting the data and to provide analyses thereof

## Contributing

The biggest contribution needed at the moment is data and code review. You can run the extractors yourself or contact me for the CSVs!

I'm happy to take suggestions or contributions for data presentation and analyses!

There's a lot of data and it's hard to aggregate. Turnout can be relative to national eligibility or regional eligibility. Etc.

There's also other data collection. I'm interested in incorporating factional identification, endorsements, branches, etc. I'd love
to incorporate national dispute balloting data, but, turnout is relatively flat (with noise in HE) with spikes for GS elections. So,
these would mostly confirm that "events don't matter much for election turnout".

(Total membership data would be nice, thought eligible voters is probably close enough.)

## Licenses

Most of the code base was generated by Claude CLI, using Sonnet with a fair bit of interaction (and occasional hand extraction of data) by me,
Bijan Parsia. As such, I believe that most of the project code is in the public domain and to the degree possible I cede my bits as well or 
under an MIT License as best suits a juristiction. (Public domaining is a complicated topic!)

Otherwise, the used packages have the following licenses:

| Package | License |
|---|---|
| streamlit | Apache 2.0 |
| requests | Apache 2.0 |
| pandas | BSD 3-Clause |
| lxml | BSD 3-Clause |
| plotly | MIT |
| beautifulsoup4 | MIT |
| pdfplumber | MIT |

My gratitude to all the contributers to the these packages as well as all the people who had their code scraped to generate the LLM behind
Claude. They probably should be compensated.

## GenAI use
The scraping and data extraction scripts took about a day to vibe code. I've made runs at this before and it's brutal. 
Even writing a scraper for this stuff is tedious. I'm not as young as I used to be so doing all the manual work to
answer questions few asode from me seem to care about. I don't think my curisoity is idle but there's lots of things to be curious
about!

I used my own Claude account (the ţ20/month plan) and (incidentally) my employer laptop. Part of my willingness to do these sorts of
projects is that I teach Software Engineering, thus really do need to have hands on experience of the technology. 
